Audit your data with JaVers (#149)
ippontech/blog-usa: posts/auditing-using-javers.md

---
authors:
- Amine Ouali Alami
- Pooja Krishnan
tags:
- HIPAA
- PHI
- Audit Trail
- JaVers
- Spring Data
- Spring Boot
- JHipster

date: 2020-01-10T20:16:10.000Z
title: "Audit your data with JaVers"
image: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ippontech/blog-usa/master/images/2020/01/audit-trail.jpg
---

> As an IT consultant, the first requirements that comes to mind when you are working in the Healthcare Industry is Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA). The technology plays a significant role to ensure data remains secure and HIPAA-compliant. According to cybercrime experts, stolen Protected Health Information (PHI) is 10 times more valuable than credit card information.

Reviewer: Is there a linkable source for the claim in the last sentence?

Author: I found many articles that's talk about this: 

https://www.reuters.com/article/us-cybersecurity-hospitals-idUSKCN0HJ21I20140924
https://www.justjohncrowley.com/why-phi-is-10-times-more-valuable-than-a-ssn-on-the-black-market/
https://www.infoworld.com/article/2983634/why-hackers-want-your-health-care-data-breaches-most-of-all.html
https://www.fortherecordmag.com/archives/0316p18.shtml

I couldn't find an official government report that confirms this, I'll keep looking.

Author: Yes, I finally found a report from the FBI that is mentioning that (http://www.illuminweb.com/wp-content/uploads/ill-mo-uploads/103/2418/health-systems-cyber-intrusions.pdf) Page 2 first paragraph.
Do you want me to add a link to that report?

Reviewer: Yes please!

The data contained in PHI can be used to generate identities, obtain health services, submit false insurance claims, order pharmaceuticals, and perform other illegal acts. That is why auditing PHI is critical: the ability to show who, when and how the data is used.

On the application layer, the two main tools for data auditing are Envers and JaVers.

> - Envers is a core Hibernate module, it provides an easy auditing solution when using Hibernate or JPA, Envers is not an option if you are using a NoSQL database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Envers is a core Hibernate module. It provides an easy auditing solution when using Hibernate or JPA. Envers is not an option if you are using a NoSQL database.
```

> - JaVers is a lightweight java library for auditing changes in your data. it can be used with any kind of database and any kind of persistence framework since the audit data is decoupled from live data; we can choose where to store them.

Reviewer: When you say "them" at the end do you mean the JaVers metadata and operational data?

Author: yes

# Audit trail with JaVers
Since our client is mainly using MongoDB, we chose to use JaVers.
JaVers is an audit log framework that helps to track changes of entities in the application.

> The usage of this tool is not limited to debugging and auditing only. It can be successfully applied to perform analysis, force security policies and maintaining the event log.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The usage of this tool is not limited to debugging and auditing only. It can be successfully applied to perform analysis, force security policies, and maintaining a log of events in our repository.
```

# Spring Boot Integration and Setup
JaVers provide a spring boot starter that integrate all the required JaVers beans with default configuration.

pom.xml
```xml
<dependency>
			<groupId>org.javers</groupId>
			<artifactId>javers-spring-boot-starter-mongo</artifactId>
			<version>5.8.8</version>
</dependency>
```

# JaVers repository configuration

> JaVers spring boot starter is configured to reuse the application's database (managed by Spring Data).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
JaVers [Spring Boot starter](https://javers.org/documentation/spring-boot-integration/) is configured to reuse the application's persistent data store.  This is managed by Spring Data.
```

Alternativelly, we can choose to store JaVers data in a separate database as shown bellow:

```yaml
javers:
  mongodb:
    host: localhost
    port: 27017
    database: javers-audit
    authentication-database: admin
    username: javers
    password: password
```
Or

```yaml
javers:
  mongodb:
    uri: mongodb://javers:password@localhost:27017/javers-audit&authSource=admin
```

# Auto audit annotations

> Auditing specific entities can be done very easy without additionnal code, simply add the @JaversSpringDataAuditable on the corresponding Spring Data repositories.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Auditing specific entities can be done very easily without additional code. Simply add the `@JaversSpringDataAuditable` annotation on the corresponding Spring Data repositories.
```

Example on MongoRepository
```
import org.javers.spring.annotation.JaversSpringDataAuditable
import org.springframework.data.mongodb.repository.MongoRepository;
import org.javers.organization.structure.domain.Person;

@JaversSpringDataAuditable
public interface PersonRepository extends MongoRepository<Person, String> {
}
```
All the changes made to Person objects will be audited by JaVers.

> In case of a custom repository, the @JaversAuditable needs to be added at the method level:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In case of a custom repository, the `@JaversAuditable` annotation needs to be added at the method level:
```

```java
@Repository
class UserRepository {

    @JaversAuditable
    public void save(User user) {
        ...//
    }

    public User find(String login) {
        ...//
    }
}
```

> For a fine-grained control, the JaVers spring bean can be used:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For fine-grained control, the JaVers Spring bean can be used:
```

```java
@Service
class PersonService {
    private final Javers javers;
    private final PersonRepository personRepository;

    @Autowired
    public PersonService(Javers javers, PersonRepository personRepository) {
        this.javers = javers;
        this.personRepository = personRepository;
    }

    public void fire(Person person) {
        person.fire();
        personRepository.save(person);

        if (LocalDate.now().getDayOfWeek() == DayOfWeek.FRIDAY){
            javers.commit("author", person);
        }
    }
}
```
In this example the auditing is only recorded on Fridays.

# Domain model annotations

> One of the challenges faced in our client is to keep the size of the audited data reasonable. JaVers provide a good domain model configuration, and we were able to use the @ValueObject annotation at the class level to audit on our embedded objects

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One of the challenges faced in our client is to keep the size of the audited data reasonable. JaVers provides a good domain model configuration. We were able to use the `@ValueObject` annotation at the class level to audit our embedded objects.
```

Reviewer 2: "One of the challenges our client faced was keeping the size of the audited data reasonable."

Example :

```java
@ValueObject
public class Address {
    private final String city;
    private final String street;
    private final String zipCode;

    public Address(String city, String street, String zipCode) {
        this.city = city;
        this.street = street;
        this.zipCode = zipCode;
    }

    // Value Object instances are compared property-by-property,
    // so the Object.equals() method is ignored by Javers
    @Override
    public boolean equals(Object o) {
        ...
    }
}
```

We also excluded from the audit all the no-PHI data using the @DiffIgnore annotation

Example :

```java
class MongoStoredEntity {

    // ...

    @DiffIgnore
    @Property("description")
    private String description

    // ...
}
```

# Retrieve the change

> As mentioned earlier, we stored all our auditing in a separate Mongo collection from client-facing data. However, we needed to find a way to display back the information collected. JaVers provides its' own JaVers Query Language (JQL), which can be used to query the Javers Repository for changes on a given class, object or property.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As mentioned earlier, we stored all our auditing data in a separate Mongo collection from client-facing data. However, we needed to find a way to display the information collected. JaVers provides it's own [JaVers Query Language (JQL)](https://javers.org/documentation/jql-examples/), which can be used to query the JaVers Repository for changes on a given class, object, or property.
```

Reviewer 3: Resolved! I would mark it as resolved, but that option isn't showing up anymore.

Data can be retrieved from JaVers in 3 possible ways: Shadows, Changes and Snapshots.
  * *Shadows* are historical versions of objects
  * *Change* shows the difference between two objects
  * *Snapshots* show the state of an object at a point in times

JaVers uses the primary key on the table or collection in order to compile this information.

##Shadows
Shadows most easily offer a view of data history. Shadows are instances of your object from different points in time. Since Shadows are instances of your domain classes, they can be easily used.

Example:
```java
Employee bob = new Employee("bob",
                             1000,
                             new Address("London"));
      javers.commit("author", bob) ;      // initial commit

      bob.setSalary(1200)  ;                // changes
      bob.getPrimaryAddress().setCity("Paris");  //
      javers.commit("author", bob);       // second commit
```
With the transactions above, we can query the following:
```java
Shadows shadows = javers.findShadows(QueryBuilder.byInstance(bob).build());
```
Shadows, as provided here is a wrapper object containing all the distinct instances of the Employee object bob.

##Snapshots

> Snapshots are the historical state of a domain object captured as the property-value map. Snapshots are raw data stored in the JaversRepository. When an object is committed, JaVers makes a Snapshot of its state and persists it. JaVers reuses Snapshots and creates a new one only when a given object is changed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Snapshots are the historical state of a domain object captured as the property-value map. Snapshots are raw data stored in the `JaversRepository`. When an object is committed, JaVers makes a snapshot of its state and persists it. JaVers reuses snapshots and creates a new one only when a given object is changed. <<insert the benefit from doing this>>
```

Reviewer 3: Resolved! I would mark it as resolved, but that option isn't showing up anymore.

> JaVers fetches snapshots in reversed chronological order.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
JaVers fetches snapshots in reverse chronological order.
```

Reviewer 3: Resolved! I would mark it as resolved, but that option isn't showing up anymore.

Looking once again at Bob, when we query the following:
```java
List<CdoSnapshot> snapshots = javers.findSnapshots( QueryBuilder.byInstance(bob).build());
```
CdoSnapshot, as seen here is a wrapper object containing the historical state of an object at a point in time.

##Changes

> The Changes view of JaVers provides the list of differences between versions of a domain object. Changes are calculated as the difference between Snapshots loaded from the JaVers Repository. As per our client requirements, we needed to display the changes for an object from creation. We decided to use the **findChanges** method to do so. There are 3 types of changes tracked by JaVers: NewObject, ObjectRemoved and PropertyChange.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Changes view of JaVers provides the list of differences between versions of a domain object. Changes are calculated as the difference between snapshots loaded from the JaVers Repository. As per our client requirements, we needed to display the changes for an object from creation. We decided to use the **findChanges** method to do so. There are 3 types of changes tracked by JaVers: `NewObject`, `ObjectRemoved` and `PropertyChange`.
```

Reviewer 3: Resolved! I would mark it as resolved, but that option isn't showing up anymore.

Let us revisit the example of Bob. When we query the following and print the changes,
```java
Changes changes = javers.findChanges( QueryBuilder.byInstance(bob).build());
System.out.println( changes.prettyPrint());
```
we see a query result of:
```
Changes:
Commit 2.0 done by author at 13 Apr 2018, 23:27:38 :
* changes on Employee/bob :
  - 'primaryAddress.city' changed from 'London' to 'Paris'
  - 'salary' changed from '1000' to '1200
```

# Conclusion

> As a complementary solution, the JaVers audit logs should be consolidated in real-time into a centralized log system to monitor and enable security alerts on top of the audit logs, and give read access to a third party Auditor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a complementary solution, the JaVers audit logs should be consolidated in real-time into a centralized log system to monitor and enable security alerts on top of the audit logs, and give read access to a third party auditor.
```

---
authors:
- Amine Ouali Alami
- Pooja Krishnan
tags:
- HIPAA
- PHI
- Audit Trail
- JaVers
- Spring Data
- Spring Boot
- JHipster

date: 2020-01-10T20:16:10.000Z
title: "Audit your data with JaVers"
image: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ippontech/blog-usa/master/images/2020/01/Ippon_Javers.jpg
---

> As an IT consultant, the first requirement that comes to mind when you are working in the Healthcare Industry is the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA). The technology plays a significant role in ensuring data remains secure and HIPAA-compliant. According to cybercrime experts and the [FBI](http://www.illuminweb.com/wp-content/uploads/ill-mo-uploads/103/2418/health-systems-cyber-intrusions.pdf), stolen Protected Health Information (PHI) is ten times more valuable than credit card information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As an IT consultant, the first requirement that comes to mind when you are working in the healthcare industry is the [Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA)](https://www.hhs.gov/hipaa/for-professionals/security/laws-regulations/index.html). Technology plays a significant role in ensuring data remains secure and HIPAA-compliant. According to cybercrime experts and the [FBI](http://www.illuminweb.com/wp-content/uploads/ill-mo-uploads/103/2418/health-systems-cyber-intrusions.pdf), stolen Protected Health Information (PHI) is ten times more valuable than credit card information.
```

- Envers is a core Hibernate module. It provides an easy auditing solution when using Hibernate or JPA. Envers is not an option if you are using a NoSQL database.
- JaVers is a lightweight Java library for auditing changes in your data. It can be used with any kind of database and any kind of persistence framework since the audit data is easily decoupled from live data; we can choose where to store it.

# Audit trail with JaVers
Since our client is mainly using MongoDB, we chose to use JaVers.
JaVers is an audit log framework that helps to track changes of entities in the application.

The usage of this tool is not limited to debugging and auditing only. It can be successfully applied to perform analysis and force security policies.

# Spring Boot Integration and Setup
JaVers provides a Spring Boot starter that integrates all the required JaVers beans with the default configuration.

pom.xml
```xml
<dependency>
            <groupId>org.javers</groupId>
            <artifactId>javers-spring-boot-starter-mongo</artifactId>
            <version>5.8.8</version>
</dependency>
```

# JaVers repository configuration

> JaVers [Spring Boot starter](https://javers.org/documentation/spring-boot-integration/) is configured to reuse the application's persistent data store.  This is managed by Spring Data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
JaVers [Spring Boot starter](https://javers.org/documentation/spring-boot-integration/) is configured to reuse the application's persistent data store.  This is managed by Spring Data. Note: _never store your passwords in your code_. We are doing this for the sake of clarity of this post but be sure to use some kind of secure secrets management solution.
```

Author: I can also put :
 username: javers
 password: encryptedPassword

please advice.

Alternatively, we can choose to store JaVers data in a separate database, as shown below:

```yaml
javers:
  mongodb:
    host: localhost
    port: 27017
    database: javers-audit
    authentication-database: admin
    username: javers
    password: password
```
Or

```yaml
javers:
  mongodb:
    uri: mongodb://javers:password@localhost:27017/javers-audit&authSource=admin
```

> # Auto audit annotations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Automatically audit annotations
```

Author: JaVers official documentation refers to that as 'Auto-audit annotations'.
I want to use the same expression.

---
authors:
- Amine Ouali Alami
- Pooja Krishnan
tags:
- HIPAA
- PHI
- Audit Trail
- JaVers
- Spring Data
- Spring Boot
- JHipster

date: 2020-01-10T20:16:10.000Z
title: "Audit your data with JaVers"
image: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ippontech/blog-usa/master/images/2020/01/Ippon_Javers.jpg
---

> As an IT consultant, the first requirements that comes to mind when you are working in the Healthcare Industry is Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA). The technology plays a significant role to ensure data remains secure and HIPAA-compliant. According to cybercrime experts, stolen Protected Health Information (PHI) is 10 times more valuable than credit card information.

Reviewer 2: "10 times" should be "ten times"

> The data contained in PHI can be used to generate identities, obtain health services, submit false insurance claims, order pharmaceuticals, and perform other illegal acts. That is why auditing PHI is critical: the ability to show who, when and how the data is used.

Reviewer 2: the ability to show who, when, and how the data is used.

Reviewer 2: added a comma before "and how"

On the application layer, the two main tools for data auditing are Envers and JaVers.
- Envers is a core Hibernate module. It provides an easy auditing solution when using Hibernate or JPA. Envers is not an option if you are using a NoSQL database.

> - JaVers is a lightweight java library for auditing changes in your data. It can be used with any kind of database and any kind of persistence framework since the audit data is easily decoupled from live data; we can choose where to store it.

Reviewer 2: capitalize "Java"

# Audit trail with JaVers
Since our client is mainly using MongoDB, we chose to use JaVers.
JaVers is an audit log framework that helps to track changes of entities in the application.

The usage of this tool is not limited to debugging and auditing only. It can be successfully applied to perform analysis and force security policies.

# Spring Boot Integration and Setup

> JaVers provide a spring boot starter that integrate all the required JaVers beans with default configuration.

Reviewer 2: "provides"

Reviewer 2: capitalize "Spring Boot"

pom.xml
```xml
<dependency>
            <groupId>org.javers</groupId>
            <artifactId>javers-spring-boot-starter-mongo</artifactId>
            <version>5.8.8</version>
</dependency>
```

# JaVers repository configuration
JaVers [Spring Boot starter](https://javers.org/documentation/spring-boot-integration/) is configured to reuse the application's persistent data store.  This is managed by Spring Data.
Alternatively, we can choose to store JaVers data in a separate database, as shown below:

```yaml
javers:
  mongodb:
    host: localhost
    port: 27017
    database: javers-audit
    authentication-database: admin
    username: javers
    password: password
```
Or

```yaml
javers:
  mongodb:
    uri: mongodb://javers:password@localhost:27017/javers-audit&authSource=admin
```

# Auto audit annotations

Auditing specific entities can be done quickly without additional code. Simply add the `@JaversSpringDataAuditable` annotation on the corresponding Spring Data repositories.

Example on MongoRepository

> ```

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```java
```

import org.javers.spring.annotation.JaversSpringDataAuditable
import org.springframework.data.mongodb.repository.MongoRepository;
import org.javers.organization.structure.domain.Person;

@JaversSpringDataAuditable
public interface PersonRepository extends MongoRepository<Person, String> {
}
```
JaVers will audit all the changes made to Person objects.

In case of a custom repository, the `@JaversAuditable` annotation needs to be added at the method level:

```java
@Repository
class UserRepository {

    @JaversAuditable
    public void save(User user) {
        ...//
    }

    public User find(String login) {
        ...//
    }
}
```

For fine-grained control, the JaVers Spring bean can be used:

```java
@Service
class PersonService {
    private final Javers javers;
    private final PersonRepository personRepository;

    @Autowired
    public PersonService(Javers javers, PersonRepository personRepository) {
        this.javers = javers;
        this.personRepository = personRepository;
    }

    public void fire(Person person) {

>         person.fire();

Reviewer 4: I'd suggest finding another example than firing people on a Friday haha

Reviewer 4: Plus, for a second, a thought `fire` was actually part of the Javers api (like: "fire and audit event")

Author: Done

        }
    }
}
```
In this example the auditing is only recorded on Fridays.

# Domain model annotations
One of the challenges faced in our client is to keep the size of the audited data reasonable. JaVers provide a good domain model configuration, and we were able to use the @ValueObject annotation at the class level to audit on our embedded objects

Example :

```java
@ValueObject
public class Address {
    private final String city;
    private final String street;
    private final String zipCode;

    public Address(String city, String street, String zipCode) {
        this.city = city;
        this.street = street;
        this.zipCode = zipCode;
    }

    // Value Object instances are compared property-by-property,
    // so the Object.equals() method is ignored by Javers
    @Override
    public boolean equals(Object o) {
        ...
    }
}
```

We also excluded from the audit all the no-PHI data using the @DiffIgnore annotation

Example :

```java
class MongoStoredEntity {

    // ...

    @DiffIgnore
    @Property("description")
    private String description

    // ...
}
```

# Retrieving Audit Information from JaVers datastore

> As mentioned earlier, we stored all our auditing data in a separate Mongo collection from client-facing data. However, we needed to find a way to display the information collected. JaVers provides its' own [JaVers Query Language (JQL)](https://javers.org/documentation/jql-examples/), which can be used to query the JaVers Repository for changes on a given class, object, or property.

Reviewer 2: remove the ' after "its"

> Data can be retrieved from JaVers in 3 possible ways: Shadows, Changes, and Snapshots.

Reviewer 2: **three** possible ways (spell out 3)

  * *Shadows* are historical versions of objects
  * *Changes* show the difference between two objects
  * *Snapshots* show the state of an object at a point in time

JaVers uses the primary key on the table or collection in order to compile this information.

> ##Shadows

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
## Shadows
```

> Shadows most easily offer a view of data history. Shadows are instances of your object from different points in time. Since Shadows are instances of your domain classes, they can be easily used.

Reviewer 2: remove "most"

Example:
```java
Employee bob = new Employee("bob",
                             1000,
                             new Address("London"));
      javers.commit("author", bob) ;      // initial commit

      bob.setSalary(1200)  ;                // changes
      bob.getPrimaryAddress().setCity("Paris");  //
      javers.commit("author", bob);       // second commit
```
With the transactions above, we can query the following:
```java
Shadows shadows = javers.findShadows(QueryBuilder.byInstance(bob).build());
```

> Shadows, as provided here is a wrapper object containing all the distinct instances of the Employee object bob.

Reviewer 2: capitalize "Bob"

> ##Snapshots

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
## Snapshots
```

> Snapshots are the historical state of a domain object captured as the property-value map. Snapshots are raw data stored in the 'JaversRepository'. When an object is committed, JaVers makes a snapshot of its state and persists it. JaVers reuses snapshots and creates a new one only when a given object is changed. This mechanism allows the user to save repository space. In addition, you can use the snapshot version to retrieve the snapshot for an object version. The snapshot version is local for each object stored in the 'JaversRepository'. When an object is committed for the first time, it has version 1. In the next commit it gets version 2 and so on.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Snapshots are the historical state of a domain object captured as the property-value map. Snapshots are raw data stored in the 'JaversRepository'. When an object is committed, JaVers makes a snapshot of its state and persists it. JaVers reuses snapshots and creates a new one only when a given object is changed. This mechanism allows the user to save repository space. In addition, you can use the snapshot version to retrieve the snapshot for an object version. The snapshot version is local for each object stored in the `JaversRepository`. When an object is committed for the first time, it has version 1. In the next commit, it gets version 2 and so on.
```

JaVers fetches snapshots in reverse chronological order.

Looking once again at Bob, when we query the following:
```java
List<CdoSnapshot> snapshots = javers.findSnapshots( QueryBuilder.byInstance(bob).build());
```
CdoSnapshot, is a wrapper object containing the historical state of an object at a point in time.

> ##Changes

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
## Changes
```

> The Changes view of JaVers provides the list of differences between versions of a domain object. Changes are calculated as the difference between snapshots loaded from the 'JaVers Repository'. As per our client requirements, we needed to display the changes for an object from creation. As such we decided to use the **findChanges** method to do so. There are 3 types of changes tracked by JaVers: 'NewObject', 'ObjectRemoved', and 'PropertyChange'.

Reviewer 2: **three** (spell out 3)
